|                 |                                                    |
|:----------------|:---------------------------------------------------|
| Minutes of the: | [2nd meeting of Ecma TC57](./2026-03-31-agenda.md) |
| held in:        | Teleconference                                     |
| on:             | 31 March 2026                                      |

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|:---------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Chairs:**    | Chris Bieneman, Chair (Microsoft), Farzon Lotfi, Vice-chair (Microsoft)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **Attendees:** | Chris Bieneman (Microsoft), Damyan Pepper (Microsoft), Nathan Gauër (Google), Justin Bogner (Microsoft), Mark Herdeg (AMD), Steven Perron (Google), Deric Cheung (Microsoft), Farzon Lotfi (Microsoft), Finn Plummer (Microsoft), Kaitlin Peng (Microsoft), Tex Riddell (Microsoft), Jesse Barker (Invited Expert), Aki Rose Braun (Ecma International) |
| **Secretary:** | Samina Husain (Ecma International), Aki Braun (Ecma International)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

# 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

Committee chair **Chris Bieneman** began the teleconference. This meeting was not recorded, though participants were informed that meetings typically are recorded for the purposes of preparing minutes and were directed to review the [video recording and legal disclaimer](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/tree/main/docs/Meetings.md#video-recording-meeting-minutes-and-legal-disclaimer) if they were not familiar.

# 2 Approval of the minutes of previous meetings

Not all members had the opportunity to review the Microsoft Word minutes document (tc57-2026-006.docx) distributed before the meeting, the minutes pull request will be approved at the next meeting.

# 3 Review of the agenda

The [agenda](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/blob/0ed956ee6da2c249e030baea3983edc3b9f0eb49/docs/MeetingMinutes/2026-03-31.md) was created from a [pull request](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/pull/6) on the [TC57 GitHub organisation](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/).

* Align on meeting cadence and time - [hlsl-tc57\#7](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/issues/7)
* AI Use Policy - [hlsl-tc57\#9](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/pull/9)
* information organisation - [hlsl-tc57\#10](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/issues/10)
* GitHub ettiquite & logistics 
  * GitHub organization membership
  * PR Approval Requirements?
  * Branch restrictions?
* Discuss feedback on the process: [hlsl-tc57\#2](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/issues/2)
  * Solicit Volunteers to serve as editors
  * Agree on a cadence for reviewing process (suggestion: annually before the fall ExeCom meeting)
* Approve outstanding PRs for Merge 
  * [hlsl-tc57\#4](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/pull/4)
  * [hlsl-tc57\#5](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/pull/5)
* **New**: Terms and Definitions Clause: [hlsl-tc57\#8](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/pull/8)

# 4 Review new proposals

There were no new proposals to review

# 5 Discussions

## 5.1 Aligning meeting scheduling

Due to the global nature of the committee and the inconsistent application of Daylight Saving/Summer time around the world, the committee discussed which time zone would be ideal to anchor meeting times. A major priority was avoiding conflicts with a standing meeting for The Khronos Group's Vulkan Working Group.
The decision was made to adhere to the following schedule

* Summer: 16:00 UTC (18:00 CEST, **12:00 EDT, 9:00 PDT**)
* Winter: 15:00 UTC (18:00 CET, **12:00 EST, 9:00 PST**)

Notably, any time there is conflict attendees should defer to the North American Daylight Savings Time schedule.

## 5.2 AI Use Policy

The committee has decided to aligning on ISO & IEC’s AI use policies in case they decide in the future to submit HLSL to ISO-IEC/JTC 1 as an international standard in the future. This prohibits the use of generative AI in specification text, technical reports, minutes, or any other publication from the committee. For more information, delegates can review the [ISO policy](https://www.iso.org/files/live/sites/isoorg/files/developing_standards/who_develops_standards/docs/use%20of%20AI.pdf) and [IEC policies](https://www.iec.ch/system/files/2024-11/Guidance_on_use_of_AI_for_IEC_Committees.pdf) directly from their sources. As of this publication they are functionally identical.

## 5.3 Information organisation

Within 3 weeks of every meeting, minutes will be produced by the secretary and distributed to delegates as Microsoft Word documents. In parallel, the secretary will prepare Markdown documents with identical content and open a pull request on the [hlsl-tc57/tc57 GitHub repository](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/pulls/). Due to the tighter timeline of fortnightly meetings, the secretary will endeavour to prepare the minutes within less than two weeks, so that delegates have an opportunity to review the PRs and approve them at the subsequent meeting.

Delegates are reminded that they are invited and encouraged to review minutes carefully *and submit corrections* regarding their contributions as needed—minutes are not set in stone at the time of PR submission and the secretary prefers accuracy to expedience.

Minutes PRs will be approved by the committee and merged by the chairs at the beginning of each meeting.

## 5.4 GitHub etiquette and logistics

The chairs have added all delegates for whom they had a GitHub username to the hlsl-tc57 GitHub org. Delegates who have not yet been added shall inform the chairs of their usernames at their convenience.

The chair proposed a process of requiring pull requests and reviews before changes are merged into the main branch, which will be protected per the GitHub feature. There were no objections.

## 5.5 Process feedback

There were no comments on the open [process issue](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/issues/2). The committee agreed that it did not need any further editing and adopted the documented processes. Process will be reviewed on an annual basis.

## 5.6 Open pull requests


### 5.6.1 Initial commit of the first clauses [\(\#4](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/pull/4))

Initial normative text and build process were discussed. All comments on the PR had been resolved, and the committee approved the content, which the chair then merged.

### 5.6.2 Add proposal for HLSL 202x & 202y ([\#5](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/pull/5))

The committee reviewed the content of the 202x & 202y proposal in real time. Meaningful details included:

* There are minor editorial & meta fixes to be made such as spelling and link targets, any approval in meeting would be conditional on those changes
* The committee discussed the merits of restarting proposal numbering vs continuing on from the source material
  * While there was a real desire to continue numbering instead of starting over, **ultimately the committee decided that it should start from 0** as its own single source of truth instead of attempting to track and synchronize across other repositories and vendor-specific work
  * This has the added benefit of communicating the independence of this committee’s work
* Development will continue on DX & VK with a namespaced approach; TC57 will leave all vendor-specific work in the capable hands of those authors and organisations.

### 5.6.3 Add Terms and Definitions Clause ([\#8](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/pull/8))

Chris Bieneman introduced the open Terms & Conditions pull request as an early work in progress, suggesting a strategy of only adding terms as they come up instead of a full lift & shift from a previous document. Steven Perron had provided a review, Chris requested further review from the remainder of the committee and hopes to have it merge-ready for the upcoming meeting on 14 April.

### 5.6.4 Add Conformance clause ([\#11](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/pull/11))

Chris Bieneman introduced this initial draft of a conformance clause with a goal of merging at the upcoming meeting on 14 April. Delegates are requested to review and provide feedback before then.

# 6 Any other business

There was no other business

# 7 Next meetings

The committee will next meet on 14 April at 16:00 UTC (18:00 CEST, **12:00 EDT, 9:00 PDT**) on Zoom.

## 7.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas can be found [on GitHub](https://github.com/hlsl-tc57/tc57/tree/main/docs/Meetings).

# 8 Conclusion

The chair wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
